<center ><font size=12><b>Consistency of state for task dispatch</b></font></center>
Abstract

> This document describes how I intend to do to keep consistency of state change in this task dispatch program.



Status of This Memo

> Just for my own use.



Table of Contents

[TOC]

# Introduction

This "task dispatch" program is design to dispatch task to thousands of worker.  To keep track of tasks, state is introduced, so we can tell if one task is queuing or working.  Because all parts of this program work in parallel,  for it to work correctly , we need to ensure the consistency of states.

# Terminology

Master: central coordinator, only one active at the same time, inactive ones server as backup.  so, at the same time, just one Master thread change these task states.

Worker: processes that do the actual work.

Zookeeper: Apache zookeeper, the back bone of consistency

Task states:

> queue: task saved in Zookeeper.
>
> dequeue: Task selected from queue, saved in memory of Master.
>
> ready: chosen by Master when worker ask for task.
>
> working: worker got the task.
>
> finished: worker finished the task.
>
> failed: some unexpected error ocurred.
>
> timeout: task tack too much time to work.
>
> kill: kill by user.

# Problem Statement

Task states are in the order of queue, dequeue, ready, working, {finished|failed}.  Task's state saved in one Znode in Zookeeper, this Znode is set by Master and woker.  Master set the first three state queue, dequeue, ready.  worker set working, {finished|failed}.   

Up to this point, there is no consistency problem. In Master  queue -> dequeue -> ready change in one thread, worker be able to change state only after ready,  and after ready Master just read the state.

Then two additional state came into play, they are timeout,  kill.  They compromise the consistency of task state.  Because Master could write state while Worker writing state.  Then what last state would it be, it's unknown.   Think this like try acquire a write lock at the same time. 

# Key Ideas

To keep consistency of state, I got 2 idea.  one is using a super state, save is in another Znode, this is what I chose.  Other is process state in sequence, list here as comparison.

## Using a "Super" state

To solve the problem Master Worker write the same time form a data structure point of view, we can divide the state. What states cause problem? They are timeout and kill, so put them in another Znode to track. Let's call It Omega State.  Omega State is the state Master and Worker agree on lastly.

Using lock as an analogy.  Master got write lock on state queue, dequeue, ready.  Then Worker got write lock on working, {finished|failed}.  For Omega State, Master got the write lock exclusively, Worker got a read lock.

How this change affect the code?  Wherever that is state related need checking the Omega State.  Two state compare together, complicate things a bit. 

## Process state in sequence

If treat all state the same (save state in the same Znode), then we must make sure that change of state is valid.  That is for example if kill been set then discard working.  A state machine needed to be introduced for checking if the change of state.  To avoid Master read different state, we need make sure state change and state checking in one thread. That is we need make all state change either from Master or Worker a msg, and process it in one thread, and cache states in Master (a snapshot of current states) avoiding read old state from Zookeeper.  

This is actually has been done in Zookeeper, other than checking state.  That's why I choose use a super state to solve this problem.

Acknowledgements

> None

Contributors

> None

Authors' Addresses

> Ian Zhang
>
> EMail: ian.zhang.88@outlock.com